>**Summary**
>

>**keywords**
>

>**TODO**
>

> **HW**
> Find out Network device makers (Routers, switches, servers)


>**Exercise*** 


> **Next time**
>

*********
# Recap of All Midterm parts

## Chp1. 
What is internet?
What is protocol?
Why do we need protocol? Because there are so many device vendors. Interoperability is hard without it. 
What is Edge, core?
Types of links
Edge is connected to Edge routers, All kinds of Edge networks

What kind of links
What kind of edge technology (Edge networks)
This book only talks about Cable based & DSL
CMTS cable device. What kind of speeds?
all funcionality on home networks
DHCP , wiresless, router,,., all in a setup box
Capacity of a wireless networks

What does  Data center mean?

Packet switching & Circuit switching (calculations)
link in slide(1-37)
binomial probablitity formulas -> not covered.
links media
wireless media, different kinds of wireless technology

Packet switching
Core functionality : forwarding and routing
what is forwarding
what is routing
forwarding table are filled by routing algorithms

All delays (calculations)
total delays,,,

FDM, TDM 

How the internet is laid out
stake holders, IXP, Regional ISPs ..
What is peering link

network performance 
What is loss delay throughput
in which situation do they occur

differences between transmission rate and throughput
queueing delay
caravan analogy practice

packet has to all arrive and only then it can be started to forwarded.

What is a, R, L (calculations here)

how traceroute command works
it is actually sending ping packet to each core.
analyze the 

packet loss happens when?

protocol parts 

throughput scenarios

not security
#todo: search about Alpha net? Alkamel
## Chp 2. Application layer

client socket

> what is socket

what each socket mean
what is a port number
one port bound to one network application

there can be code-fill-out problsm.

> Transport service requirements.

> What is TCP

> What is UDP

What is reliable 
What is flow control
What is conjestion control
which service will provide what

DNS runs on UDP, but can work on TCP too. 

>HTTP

What is http protocol
> what is persistent

non-percsistent :every object needs a one request TCP
RTT is double.

Consider DNS resolution time, TCP establishment time, HTTP establishment time

what if parallel is supported?

pereisstent HTTP
one TCP, several objects

> HTTP headers meanings

> Cookies
Some scenarios 

Web caching
purpose of the cache
How it can reduce the delay.
What is a delay in w/ or w/o web cahe (calculations)

Conditional GET
If-Modified-Since
Not modified

HTTP/2
What is HOL blocking
Mitigating HOL blocking

REST architectue
benefit of REST? Easy integrations

Skip SMTP

DNS 
four types of queries
identify the query type
hierarchy of DNS

iterative query

DNS cachieng
RR types
for this type what is name and value
many qustions many answers possible

What are the steps on DNS

What do you need to do to run a TLD, Authorative DNS, .com server
> slide 2-88 

P2P skip

What's frame
what is resolution
what is encoding
>What is the differences between encoding & compression
	In encoding you can increase and decrease resolution
	compression means only minimizing size

Streamed video
at this time how many frames are shown?
at this time what is playout delay

understand DASH
what steps are there to support DASH
slide (2-110)

CDN

Socket programming in TCP, 

given code, what this line means

All the system calls

Multiplexing in Sockets
Master socket, lsdkfjsldfjld

select()
blocking system call
what is returned

## SNMP
Management purpose, application layer protocol

what is a network management
what can you do with NetConf? configurations
What components for network management?

MIB
how it is whon in wireshark

Drawback of SNMP
network conjestion issues. 


NETCONF uses TCP. not a different application protocol
What does netconf talk about
