
>**Summary**
>

>**keywords**
>video streaming, CDN, pixel, frames/sec, spatial coding, temporal coding

>**TODO**
>

> **HW**
> read Chapter 5 5.6(data center), 5.7(A day in the life of a web page request) parts
> What is difference of compression and encoding?


>**Exercise*** 
>Should read these again.. 

> **Next time**
> 

*********
# Video Streaming
how can we scale to more users?
heterogeneity : different capabilities on different users.

**solution : distributed(CDN) , application-level infrastructure(DASH protocol)**


# What is a video?
> sequence of images displayed at constant rate.

pixel : smallest unit in the image, stored in bits, storing color coding.

How can we decrease image bits?
1. spatial : use redundancy **within an image**
2. temporal: use redundancy **between images**

#todo :What is difference of compression and encoding?

## video encoding
find the resolution : 1920p * 1080p
find bit each pixel : 24bit each pixel
find FPS : 24 frames/sec

when shooting video, data is generated 1.5Gb/s -> we cannot store this. lack of capacity


## Codec 
> piece of software that compresses and decompressed the data

## popular Compressing technique
1. CBR (constant bit rate) : suitable for static videos
2. VBR (variable bit rate) : suitable for dynamic videos.

examples.
MPEG1 (CD-ROM) 1.5Mbps
MPEG2 (DVD)
MPEG 4 (in internet, 64kb)


## Streaming videos thru network (Stored video)
>more on chapter 7

challenges : varying bandwidth, packet loss, delay due to conjestion, poor video quality..

How to solve these forms?

Scenario
send and resting of transmitting data is performed. (in order not to occupy a bandwidth)
-> That's why data is cumulated in form of stairs.

fixed delay

however, fixed delay is not guarenteed.
playout bufferin

startup delay. (clident-side buffering, playout delay.)  :to cover up the fluctuating network delay(jitter).

challenges, the playout timing must match the original timing.
	-> needs **client-side buffer**.

How do you buffer? with startup delay

#### DASH (Dynamic streaming over HTTP)
server-side intelligence.
1. divides video in chunks
2. encoded chunk at mutiple differnt rates
3. differnet rate encoding stored in different rates
4. file is replicated in various CDN nodes

5. manifest filr provides URL

client-side iintelligence
periodically esitmates



OTT. server infrastructure. 