# Introduction 

>**Summary**
>

>**keywords**
>

>**TODO**
>

> **HW**

>**Exercise*** 
>

> **Next time**
> 

*********
# DHCP
#test : fill-in-the-blank problem in DCHP client-server scenario

ipconfig /renew command refreshes DCHP transactions that is done in prior.

# Hierarchical nature of IP address

## How it is made
* ISP reserves a address space. /20
* The ISP can allocate address subnets. /23 -> made $2^3$ subnets available under this ISP.

## Benefits
* allows efficient route advertisement of routing information.
	* Only the subnet part is advertised in routing tables.
	* "You don't need to know my whole address. To get to me, just send it to my subnet gateway".
	* The subnet gateway has the forwarding table for the rest of the IP address info. 
	* Consequently, the forwarding tables are reduced efficiently.
* if new IP is added in the subnet, that is not inside the current subnet IP range, advertise that additionally. 
* At the higher level router, they compute longest address prefix computing. 

## ETC
* ICANN : Highest level of system organization above all the ISP. 
	* allocates IP addresses through 5 Regional registries (RRs)
	* manages DNS root zone. 

* NAT helps IPv4 address space exhausion.

# NAT
> Network address translation
* A network-layer software unit allowing to expand its subnet.

> This network devices share a single global IP address.
* Interior devices is routed by the gateway router, by **port number**.

* all devices in local network have 32-bit address in a private IP address space.
	* 10/8, 172,16/12,192.168/16 prefixes.

## Benefits
* just one IP address for all devices.
* can change address of devices in local network at will.
* can change ISP without changing local device addresses.
* Security : every devices are not directly accessible.

## Implementation
1) Outgoing
* replace every datagram IP by NAT IP

2) Incoming
* replace every datagram IP+port by NAT table.

## Controversy on NAT
* router should only process up to layer 3, but port is a transport layer property.
* should be solved by IPv6 instead.
* violates end-to-end argument modularity.
* **NAT traversal** : What if client wants to connect to server behind NAT?

# IPv6
* out of 40 bytes header, 32 bytes are used for source IP, destination IP.
* Fragmentation header fields are omitted. 
* How do they handle big MTU fragmentation? The router sends back a request of a smaller MTU. fragmentation is done in the end user device. 
* option fields are omitted. The header size is now fixed.
* flow level number will be used in the future. 
* no TTL, no header Length, asdlfkasdmlsadkfamdlck.


