# Introduction 

>**Summary**
>

>**keywords**
>

>**TODO**
>

> **HW**

>**Exercise*** 
>

> **Next time**
> 
*********
# Link layer
link layer is responsible for one and other physically adjacent nodes. 
* multiple link layer protocols can be used in a network. ex. ethernet, wifi,..
* No routing. only forwarding. only switching fabric. 
* may or may not provide reliable data. 

###### sidenote.
* wireless links typically provides reliability. ex. error connection..
* routers can have multiple ip, multiple MAC.
## LAN
> The network without involving a router.

## Link layer : services
1) Framing, link access
	* encapsulate with header, trailer, making a frame.
	* channel access if shared medium
	* MAC address is always used to identify the source and destination **device**
2) flow control
	* pacing between adjacent nodes.
3) error detection
	* receiver detects, signals retransmission, or drops frame.
4) error correction
5) half-duplex, full-duplex
	* half-duplex is like walkie talkie
6) multiple access protocols
	* avoiding collision between ...?

# MAC
* used **locally** to get frame from 
* pretty much random. EXACT MATCHING.


## ARP table.
mac-ip matching for the local area.
usage of broadcast mac address. FF-FF-FF-FF-FF-FF

## Routing to another subnet
* A knows B's IP address (from DNS request)
* A knows IP address of first hop router, R (from DHCP responses)
* A knows R's MAC address (from ARP)

* Sender sends with Router MAC destination.
* Router will lookup the dest IP in the routing table, and find the MAC address of ethernet to go out.
* Router will amend the MAC src to subnet2's router MAC
* router will amend the MAC dest to destination device.

> When going out of the local network, you will type in the MAC dest as the first hop router.
# Ethernet
> Buses separated with Layer-2 Switches to prevent collision.
* Connection less. 
* Unreliable
## Ethernet frame structure
preamble  : used for clock synchronizing
addresses  : 
type : L3 protocol
CRC : cyclic redundancy check 


## Switch
Link layer device. 
* examine incoming frames AMC address, sometimes buffer, and forward frame. 
* transparent : host unaware of the presence of switches
* plug-and-play, self-learning tech.

* Switch 가 눈치 잘 보고 단서 찾아서 switch table 알아서 만듬. (flooding)
* switch table
* *



# Switches vs. Routers
