# Introduction 

>**Summary**
>

>**keywords**
>

>**TODO**
>

> **HW**

>**Exercise*** 
>

> **Next time**
> 

**********
# Arithmetic w/ Unsigned Numbers

## Addition
* add bit-wise.
* if there's carry-out, you add 1 to the next digit. 

## Subtraction
* borrow values from bigger digits, and subtract. 
* This is so complex. Just use signed number arithmetic and convert back. 

## Multiplication
* add each multiplication to each digit. 
* Just like we learned in elementary school.

# Arithmetic w/ Signed Numbers

## Addition
* The system is well defined, so you just need to calculate bit-wise. 
## Problems
* When (positive)+(negative) makes additional digit carry out, you discard it.
* When (positive) +(positive) makes additional digit carry out, it is an overflow. 
* When (negative) + (negative) makes sign digit into positive, it is an underflow. 
* In either way, overflowed number can't be represented in bit limitation. 

## How do you handle overflow/underflow?
* This problem also easily happens in multiplications. 
* How to handle? just use additional 1 bit more for error catching. 

(ONLY FOR 2's complement) Sign extension might handle it. 
* the sign-bit should be replicated for n more digits in front.

## Subtraction
* take the 2's complement of the subtrahend(latter value) and add it.
* discard any final carry bit.



# Binary Codes & its arithemetics
> It is not defined mathematically. 
 
* It is just a set of numerical information. 
* It's a pattern of numerical representation of another element of information. 

* Packed representation is bit-inefficient.

## Addition
THOUGH it is not defined mathematically, it mimicks a sequence of natural numbers.
So a psudo-addition is possible.

If the sum is smaller than 10, the result is correct.
If the sum is bigger than 9, since we don't use 10~15 reprentations, we need to skip 6 representation and get the next representation. That is numerically equivalent to "adding 0110" more. 




