# Introduction 

>**Summary**
>

>**keywords**
>

>**TODO**
>

> **HW**

>**Exercise*** 
>

> **Next time**
> 

**********
# Information Representations

### Tech in chronological order.
1. Mechanical
* uses gears for moving.
*  **physical representation of state : gears in a specific configuration.**

2. Electrical
- our computers.
- **physical representation of state : voltage or no voltage state.**

3. Optical
* optical computing is commercially on the horizon.
* It is still too expensive.
* **physical representation of state : photon present or absent state.**

4. Quantum
* completely different tech.
* you change the data as you read. -> a finite state does not exist.
* Instead, the computations collide into probabilities.

> physical repr. are on binary information systems.
* data implicit by some physical entity being present or not.

## data representations
Computer
* binary. 1:4 compression is hexadecimal. 1:3 compression is octal(rarely used)

Human
* sexagesimal :12 based system. advantages on exact fractions. 
	* babilonian canaric symbol..

## Concept and its representations.
value is different from its representations.
The concept is unisome; its presentation can be multiple.

example.
**number** is represented in integer form and real number form( IEEE 754) inside computer.
* negative numbers? : 1 bit for direction & other bits for magnitude?
* 2's complement is a system to express value AND direction integrated at the same time.

**character** is represented in font(a graphic form), and hard coded to ASCII,EBCDIC,Unicode table. zoned ?
- ascii and ebcdic is limited; it uses 8bit (=1byte) for each character repr.
- unicode uses 16bit (=2byte) for each character repr.

* korean is represented in unicode(2byte) converted into utf-8(3byte) and transmitted.

**binary coded decimals** are half way between number and character representations.
BCD to character, BCD to decimals are easy.

sidenote.
zero is technically not a value; it is more of a placeholder.
**************

## Zoned formats
.....
