---
id: 2023-09-18
---

# Introduction 

>**Summary**
>

>**keywords**
>

>**TODO**
>

> **HW**
> 

>**Exercise*** 
>

> **Next time**
> Recurrence $T(n) = 2T(n-1)+1$

*********
# Recap

practice thinking in a recursive manner

First approach
base condition 
* think about smallest valid input
* think about the smallest piece of recursion

=> hypothesis 
* think about how to make the phase smaller/bigger

=> induction
* think about how topull the next recursion and use it.


*****
Chapter 4 in book
# Recurrence Relation
> Find the time complexity of some recursion codes.

## method of finding time complexity
* Recursion Tree method
* Substitution method
* masters theorem


memo.
Recursion is naturally function of a decreasing form.
How? subtraction & division.

## 1. Decreasing Recurrence $T(n)=T(n-1)+1$
We denote the function as T. 
```c
Void Test(int n) {
	if(n>0){
		printf("%d",n)
		Test(n-1);
	}  
}
```
This has time complexity $\Theta(n)$.
Two primitive steps : comparison, printing. 
for each recurrence, this takes $2+T(n-1)$ steps.
Two is a constant, so it is basically same as 1.
n+1 function calls, n prints.

#todo : try to draw of recursive tree.

memo.
linear(and quadratic) function, you can represent with theta.
n! function, you cannot represent with theta.

Let's use substitution method this time.
Base Condition:
>Do not forget to write base condition!

```
\begin{equation*}
T(n) = \begin{cases}
1 & \quad n=1 \\
T(n-1)+1 & \quad n>1.
\end{cases}
\end{equation*}
```
Substitution:
$T(n) = T(n-1)+1$
$\quad\quad=T(n-2)+2$
$\quad\quad=T(n-3)+3$
$\quad...$
$\quad\quad=T(n-n)+n$
$\quad\quad=1+n$

> IN TEST, should substitute at least 3 times.
> IN TEST, If possible, write in Theta function.
## 2. Decreasing Recurrence $T(n) = T(n-1)+n$
```c
Void Test(int n){
	if(n>0){
		for(int i=0;i<n;i++) {
			printf("%d",n);
		}
		Test(n-1);
	}
}
```

Let's use substitution.
Base Condition:

```
$$
\begin{equation*}
T(n) = \begin{cases}
1 & \quad n=1 \\
T(n-1)+n & \quad n>1.
\end{cases}
\end{equation*}
$$
```

Substitution:
$T(n) = T(n-1)+n$
$\quad\quad=T(n-2)+(n-1)+n$
$\quad\quad=T(n-3)+(n-2)+(n-1)+n$
$\quad...$
$\quad\quad=T(n-k)+\sum_{i=1}^k i$
$\quad\quad=1+\frac{n(n-1)}{2}$


## 3. Decreasing Recurrence $T(n)=T(n-1)+\log{n}$
```c
Void Test(int n){
	if(n>0) {
		for(int i=0;i<n;i*=2){
			printf("%d",n);
		}
	}
	Test(n-1);
}
```

For each `for loop`, it takes $\log{n}$ times of calculation.
$\# \;of \;calculations = \log{1}+\log{2}+\log{3}+...+\log{n} = \log n! $
So, in **upper bond**, $\log n!$&lt;$=\log n^n$
$O(\log{n^n}) = O(n\log{n})$

#todo : derive it with substitution method.

## Shortcuts #1
$T(n)=T(n-1)+1 => \Theta(n)$
$T(n)=T(n-1)+n => \Theta(n^2)$
$T(n)=T(n-1)+\log{n} => O(n \log{n})$

The next order of remainder factors.
What if $T(n) = T(n-C) +1$?
The $C$ doesn't matter. (unless $c->\infty$)

