# Introduction 

>**Summary**
>

>**keywords**
>

>**TODO**
>

> **HW**

>**Exercise*** 
>

> **Next time**
> solution of Knapsack problem. 

*********
# Recap
master's theorem, asymptotic notations, substitutions

what algorithms did we learn? 
linear search, binary search, all kinds of sorting, 
*******
# Contents Forward
* DP or Greedy
* Fibonacci
* Zero one, unbounded, simple knapsack
* matrix chain multiplication
* longest common subsequence
* 
> write in resursive first, and convert to DP algorithm.

# Dynamic Programming
* used for solving **Optimizing Problem**; minimize or maximize sth.
	memo. optimization can be solved using Greedy and DP. 
* reduces time complexity of prior algorithms.
* should **try all possible solutions** and pick up the best solution.

### Two approach of DP
* memoization(Top down).
* Tabulation (Bottom up).
### How do you identify the problem can be solved by DP?
>  to implement, the problem should contain **overlapping subproblems**.
>  DP follows **Principle of Optimality**

### principle of optimality
problems can be solved by taking a sequence of decision.

### Divide n Conquer vs. DP
similarity : combine subproblem solution to make final solution
difference : 
Divide n Conquer when **disjoint** subproblems,
	there will be no same call with same input.
	ex. merge sort.
DP when **overlapping** subproblems.
	ex. fibonacci.

### Greedy vs. DP
* Greedy sees the local optimum. 
* Greedy do not deal with multiple possible solutions
* Greedy do not guarantee the correct answer.
* Greedy is faster. 
* Greedy deal with some uncertain assumptions.

#todo : see slide 5. (see image)

memo. Greedy
Greedy is based on local optimum. step by step, 

## Problem w/ Recursion; Why do we need DP?
> stack overflow. 


# DP#1, Fibonacci.
## Fibonacci in Memoization
**recursive** approach, top-down approach.

Steps.
1. initialize an 1D array (with invalid results, like -1).
2. after calling functions, fill the result on array.
3. When overlapping functions, refer the array and get the result w/o calculating.

> Still recursive.

## Fibonacci in Tabulation
**iterative** approach, using loops.

Steps.
1. make an array.
2. iterating from 0 to desitnation, calculate each fibonacci one by one.


# DP#2-1, 0/1 Knapsack.
> bag with a finite capacity bag.
> each item has weight and price.
> maximize the contained price of the bag.

> Take, or don't take the item. 