# Introduction 

>**Summary**
>introductions of several sorting algorithms and how they work

>**keywords**
>divide and conquer, merge sort, quick sort.


>**TODO**
>#todo : dividing logic pseudocode
>#todo : combining logic pseudocode
>#todo: look for the space complexity of merge sort

> **HW**

>**Exercise**
>draw the steps of sorting.

> **Next time**
> 

# Divide and Conquer : recap
Divide, Conquer, combine

# Merge sort
## steps.
* Divide input array into two parts (usually in half)
* merge sort right one.
* merge sort left one.
* combine right and left ones.

Input : Array and indices p,q,r
#todo 1: dividing logic pseudocode
#todo 2: combining logic pseudocode
#todo 3: look for the space complexity of merge sort

### Big-O analysis of merge sort
On each depth, it needs $n$ times to combine.
The number of depth is $log(n)$
so, the time complexity is $nlog(n)$

#todo 4: worst case data of merge sort.

# Selection Sort
> Set the first element as minimum.

## steps.
* traverse through all array and find the minimum element.
* When found, swap with the first position.
* Next is minimum for second position.

#todo 5: pseudocode for selection sort.
### Time complexity of selection sort.
On each round, it needs $n$ times to find a minimum.
there are $n$ rounds.
so, the time complexity is $O(n^2)$.

#todo 6: worst case data of selection sort.


# Quick Sort
> find the right sorted pivot to divide.
> swap each side's anomaly until two iteration overlap.

divide and conquer
## steps.
* partition
	* find a pivot position.
	* put smaller element on the left, put bigger element on the right.
	* sort each part.
	* put the pivot target in between.
* quick sort each partition.

**caution.**
There are a lot of variations of implementing quick sort.

pseudocode

5 2 4 7 1 3 2 6  이 있다. 
5를 pivot 으로 설정한다. 
좌측부터 5보다 작은지 본다. 
7은 5보다 크다. 멈춘다.
우측부터 5보다 큰지 본다. 
2는 5보다 작다. 멈춘다. 
7과 2를 바꾼다.

좌측 이동을 다시 시작한다. 
...
좌측 iteration 과 우측 iteration이 겹칠때까지 한다.
두 iteration이 지나가면 우리 pivot 과 바꾼다?

#todo 7 : pseudocode of quick sort.
### Time complexity of Quick sort.

Best case : $O(nlog(n))$
* best case happens when partition happens at the right middle.
* (pivot element is a median of the list)

Worst case : $O(n^2)$
* worst case happens when data is already sorted.
* it should check n times for all n data.
#todo 8: worst case data of quick sort.

#todo 9: protocol to find what is the best suitable sorting algorithms.
#todo 10: checklist of checking the sorting algorithm is seamless.

 ways to avoid the worst case of quick sort
 * Dont' talways select the pivot as first element.
* ...
* #todo 11: write more.