# Introduction 

>**Summary**
>

>**keywords**
>

>**TODO**
>

> **HW**

>**Exercise*** 
>

> **Next time**
> 

*********
# Greedy
> Used when step by step choosing the local optimum reaches the global optimum
* It will need an appropriate data structure
* graph algorithms are also by nature, a greedy algorithm

## Fractional Knapsack Problem
* maximize the profit with fraction-able objects.
* no need of DP. The only idea you need is as follows.

highest $profit/weight$ 

take the maximum prof/weight object as many as possible, and take the next maximum prof/weight object as many as possible. 

Create a heap with the prof/weight ratio.
Why not sorting? the smaller things we do not use.

make a key to track back the object from the ratio..?

## Scheduling unit-time tasks with deadlines
> Select the highest earning first.

Create a heap with the earning.
For each day, pick the next highest earning. Check it the deadlines meet the time slot.


**DO not iterate from the first time slot.**
Put the task in the time slot closest to the deadline.

## Optimal Merge Pattern
> This will be used in Huffman Coding.
> similar to Rope connecting problem

* the cost of merging depends on the sizes of items.
* **merge small things first**. This strategy leads to the smallest cost.

> for every iteration, double check if the sum of smallest items lead to the smallest item. 

## Huffman Coding.
> compression technique.

Say we want to send 20-character string.

0) No encoding
Without encoding, it takes 8 bits per character. 160 bits in total.

1) Fixed size coding.
make an optimal encoding map($8*5+3*5$), and send the map along with the data($3*20$)?
smaller(115 bits) than no encoding(160 bits), but 배보다 배꼽이 더 커.

2) variable size coding.






