# Introduction 

>**Summary**
>Should know the definition of each aymptotic notations.
>Important chapter for midterm. 

>**keywords**
>

>**TODO**
>* #todo: paste some images for better understanding.
>* #todo : look for the substitution method is the textbook.

> **HW**
> 

>**Exercise*** 
>

> **Next time**
> growth function, Recursion, substitution method.

*********
# Recap

> Algorithm Analysis, time complexity, asymptotic notations

*****
# Asymptotic Notations
* It should follow the similar pattern of the runtime growth.
* how to find? **substitution method.** Change all the 
#todo : look more for the substitution method

## Big- O
* Upper bound. 
* It should follow the similar pattern of the runtime growth.
* $O(g(n))$ : there exists a $n_0$  ,positive constants $C$, such that in $n_0 < n$, the runtime $f(n)$ is bound over. $f(n) < c g(n)$

example. $f(n) = 2n+3$
in $f(n) = 2n+3$, the function is smaller than $5n$ in $n>=1$
so, $c=5$ , $g(n) =n$ 

Meanwhile, 
$g(n) = n^2, g(n)= n^3$ is also feasible. But generally we call it in the **minimum order**.

so, $f(n)$ is $O(n)$.


## Big- Omega
* Lower bound.
* $\Omega(g(n))$ :  there exists a $n_0$  ,positive constants $C$, such that in $n_0 < n$, the runtime $g(n)$ is bound over. $f(n)$  &lt; $= c g(n)$

example. $f(n) = 2n+3$
in $f(n) = 2n+3$, the function is bigger than $2n$ in $n>=1$ 
so, $c=2$, $g(n) = n$

Meanwhile, 
$g(n) = \log n\;g(n)=1$ is alsow feasible. But generally we call it in the **maximum order**.

so, $f(n)$ is $\Omega (n)$.

## Big- Theta
* Tight bound. 
* It should follow the similar pattern of the runtime growth.
* there exists a $n_0$  ,positive constants $C_1,\;C_2$, such that in $n_0 < n$, the runtime $g(n)$ is bound within $c_1 f(n)$ &lt; $= g(n)$ &lt; $= c_2 f(n)$

example. $f(n) = 2n+3$
in $f(n) = 2n+3$, the function is $2n$&lt;$= 2n+3$&lt;$=5n$ 
so, $c_1=2$, $C_2 = 5$, $g(n) = n$

* The theta is when big omega and big O is the same. 
* There is **only one** representation function. 


**Caution**
There exist functions that **can't** be expressed with big-theta. 
Those functions have different big-$\Omega$ and big-O.

example : factorials
	$f(n) = n!$

example 2 : **meaningful bound** is hard to find.
	$f(n) = n*n(n-1)*(n-2)...(n)$  there is no meaningful minimum bound.
	only big-O is found, big-O is $O(n^n)$ . 

small-o, small -omega
They are strictly less or bigger. 
It is a **bit tighter** than that of their big notations.

*****
# Best-case, Worst Case

> Caution.
> Big-O notation and Big-Omega notation **has nothing to do** with best&worst case.
> This is only a test scenario focused on the data itself.
> The notations is focused on the sequence of commands.


> You express the best case and worst case **in asymptotic notations**.
> However, when you are asked for the time complexity of the algorithm,
#todo : the confusion between best cases and time complexity


#todo : Minimum worst case? Maximum best case?

Example1 . linear Search

Best case  : when the key is in the first position.
Best case time : O(1)

Worst case  : when the key is at the last position.
Worst case time : O(n)

Average case : (All possible case time) / (# of cases)
usually the worst case.

most times, we call the  

Example2. Binary search

**remark**
**For some algorithms**, Worst cases are two types
minimum worst case : balanced tree data structure, first element $O(1)$??
maximum worst case : linear shaped tree data structure, end element $O(n)$??

#todo : recap on the two types of worst cases.

it happens for certain algorithms with specific algorithms