# 2021-01-25

#### _Jan. 5, 2021._ Project 1 mid-review : chaneeMinbak
## I. Status quo : learned HTML, CSS, JS
Dec. 8 2020 - Jan. 5 2021 
I had made [chanee Minbak](https://2ood.github.io/chaneeMinbak/) site for learning frontend languages : <code>HTML, CSS, and Javascript.</code> 
### challenge #1 : top nav bar
It was really hard to recognize how to develop dropdown top navigation bar. It was outstandingly difficult to detach sub <code>ul</code> from its parent. The problem was that sub <code>ul</code> was at the same level of parent's <code>li</code>s.

following : **wrong one.** sub <code>ul</code> not nested in <code>li</code>.
```
<ul>
	<li class='where'><a href='#where?'>where?</a></li>
		<ul id='ul1'>
			<li><a href='#intro'>intro</a></li>
			<li><a href='#service'>services</a></li>
			<li><a href='#announce'>announce</a></li> 
		</ul>
<ul>
```
following : **right one.**
```
<ul>
	<li class='where'><a href='#where?'>where?</a>
		<ul id='ul1'>
			<li><a href='#intro'>intro</a></li>
			<li><a href='#service'>services</a></li>
			<li><a href='#announce'>announce</a></li> 
		</ul>
	</li>
<ul>
```

### challenge #2 : background-image sliding
I had thought of changing background images as the user clicks right/left arrow ( >,< ) at the end of the image. It was very difficult to implement it with css's <code> background-image</code> attribute. It was so hard to manage it with Javascript. 

I was surfing websites in my duty work, and found the alternatives; using image layers that are hidden (<code>display:none</code>). All I needed to do is make a loop to choose which layer of image should be <code>display:inline</code>. I am not satisfied of the loop function, but I reckon it will be all right to just leave it this way. non-value-added.

### challenge #3 : ratio
I frequently used images or iframes for Youtube, Maps, and etc. I wanted it to be seen as a fixed width-height ratio. I decided to use wrapper that has responsive width and height according to its view port dimension. 

### challenge #4 : fetch content html
I first thought it is inefficient to make each html file for each page, because the top nav bar and welcome-box was always at the top of every page. I thought the only thing that is needed to be changed is the content itself. 
I used <code>fetch().then()</code> function that I once saw at the [opentutorials](https://opentutorials.org/). Later, I found out it was one of the Javascript libraries : <code>fetchAPI</code>. 

### challenge #5 : z-index
when I was making the <code>change-prev</code> button used as a button for sliding pics, I found <code> &lt;div&gt;</code>s that are either <code>display:absolute</code> or <code>display:relative</code> has a <code>z-index</code> for placing layouts. Still not sure I know well..

### challenge #6 : responsive web implementation
This website was designed for the source web of a web app. Therefore, I was initially thinking that this site is 'mobile-oriented'. However, I wasn't even able to make a desktop one. So, as soon as I made my desktop prototype, I implemented <code>@media</code> query. I made stylesheet separated by the single viewport threshold; dividing mobile and desktop. I shortened the top nav bar into hamburger image and made it show as I click the image.  


## II. What is in need?
### need #1. boards. 
I want to make FAQ & QnA boards. It is difficult to write and edit when each content of the board are stored locally at the server as files - especially when it comes to Github Page because the user needs to 'commit' a content when appending or editing files. 

I don't like dirty adjustements. I shall just host a free server and a MySQL database domain.  

### need #2. reservation calendar.
I want to make a reservation page where the user can see the booked schedule and choose the left dates at a same page. in order to implement this, the calendar (implemented by JS) should be able to get reservation records, which should also be editable. 

** both needs require a database work.** I need to learn backend now. 

## III. plans for next week.
### 1) backend : PHP
  > [php tutorials](https://www.javatpoint.com/php-tutorial)

Now, that was why I decided to learn PHP for backend. I don't know how a 'backend' is coded - at all. I don't know how I should link it to frontend. I should get a grasp of 'backend' before I learn just the right language for myself. 

### 2) frontend : javascript, jQuery
need to be familiarized with Javascript.